foreign
I just saw entrepreneurialism as
breathing you know it's just a thing you
do in life only the MailChimp brand can
get away with the kind of content that
we're publishing most people think of
this as just sort of a software company
but we're here to empower we're here to
empower small businesses they have a
story to tell they've got some cool idea
for their brand and when they log in I
don't want them to have to worry about
how to make it work I just want them to
go in and tell their story you're gonna
have mistakes and setbacks everybody
does nobody's smarter nobody knows what
they're doing that's actually
tremendously frightening comforting and
scary at the same time but it's the
truth prepare for many long nights just
when you think it couldn't get worse
it's going to get worse it's going to be
like a storm and you're going to be at
the front of the ship just holding on
for survival
much order is really horrible I think my
job is to find ways to ways to create
if you build a successful brand is
because it's different by definition no
Playbook first I dream I look into the
future in what are the goals our brand
is sort of one the permission of small
businesses to expand into more
[Music]
so I am so pleased to have been here I
did not know until we did our prep call
that
back in the day I was the ICP for
MailChimp we'll talk about it but we all
have our hero apps and I remember back
in the day when first I was a SAS
founder two things happened um I had no
marketing help and I wanted to do a Blog
and an email list so I had to figure out
what blogging software to use and I'm
like I had over a hundred people on my
list from a trade show and I wanted to
email them and I don't know how I found
MailChimp we'll talk about it but I
loved it and then I had this moment as a
Founder this is a while ago where I'm
like God this SAS stuff's hard will it
ever get big and I'm driving on 101 and
there's this that MailChimp billboard
with just like the I know I'm colorbond
The Greener the yellow was it was it one
on the 101 it was like a little blue
yeah yeah and I was like oh my God how
much does that cost a billboard it must
be like a half a million dollars
MailChimp must be huge but it it
inspired me that hey like this SAS stuff
could be pretty big so it was very
inspirational and
fast forward today we we required last
year for how much I can't remember uh 12
billion 12 billion dollars so pretty
crazy Journey but not only is it crazy
it's a company that was fully
bootstrapped and pretty consistent to
its original vision from the beginning
right so we're gonna dig all of it but
it's definitely a hero story and again
Ben was kind enough to do us digitally
during
um during the craziness and we asked him
every year but he he came this year so
um I do feel I do feel blessed so we'll
we'll I want to dig into a bunch of
things especially some things I learned
about MailChimp that are not obvious
from smbs because I think it's super
interesting and then we do have a little
time at the end because there's not
another session on this so folks want to
leave after half an hour to go to
another session I don't know if Ben will
be insulted I won't be but we can stay
for a few minutes of question so think
if you have a few we have a little more
time than I thought
um but first just deal stuff M A's so
nichy but this was interesting to me
tell us how how long the deal took to
happen
oh the the Intuit deal took uh a little
more than a year to happen a year a year
from first aid yes okay and so what what
as much as you can tell us about I think
some of it's public but how did it
happen did you get a random email or a
DM or how did how does this process
happen for 12 billion how do they get
started we had been through sort of a
little bit of an informal round with
another couple of potential buyers yeah
and you know it it didn't end with a a
good deal so we walked away from it and
I was I had sworn I would never listen
to another offer again I was done with
it I was going to move on and just run
my company for the rest of my life and
then you know maybe within a couple of
days I got a call uh from Catalyst
actually I'd been working with them for
many years and they said just take one
more call you're gonna like this one oh
it's into it so I took a call with Alex
Chris uh my my new boss and uh I mean we
hit it off immediately he's a small
business entrepreneur uh he's been with
Intuit for 17 years by then but uh he
had run a business got Acquired and he
knew the passion required to manage
small
companies and he knew the pain that they
suffered from it he knew what drove us
at MailChimp and we just got along
really well but they are also a very
careful company they care about uh
culture fit and they did a lot of
culture diligence and that all which I
loved I love that they cared that much
and but but that did mean one year of uh
kind of wooing each other so you went
there's a couple interesting things in
this we could spend all the time on this
but you went through another deal that
didn't happen that took months and
months and months of doing action yeah
it didn't happen which is so fresh for
whatever reason it's so frustrating
right and then another year to complete
this a full year to complete this of
getting to know each other right yes and
um and you didn't
um you you didn't actually usually I
find these relationships these come out
of a relationship right and you hear of
something but this wasn't a pre-existing
relationship not at all so you had to
build it after that initial initial
meeting lots and lots of Zoom calls
phone calls and text messages between
you and Alex I mean it was during it was
during like P craziness too right he was
yeah is that better in some ways it
actually kind of helped me I'm a little
bit of an introvert and so uh not having
to meet him in person kind of helped in
the early days yeah uh so it was kind of
nice and you know I got to talk to
sassan uh the CEO and also the founder
Scott Cook who had given me some great
advice many years ago about how to
evolve MailChimp to the next level and
uh it was just kind of weird and full
circle for them to come back around and
think about acquiring us and they knew
so a year and you didn't know him but of
course everyone knew about MailChimp how
did they think about MailChimp obviously
it's an iconic brand but what was in
their head what got them excited since
they didn't know you personally we both
kind of hit it off very fast Alex and I
and the the common Vision that we had
was to have one great uh platform for a
small business season we would both
Works we're talking to our customers and
noticing that they were using so many
different SAS applications yeah paying
so many different fees and we just
thought you know I had always dreamed of
maybe we handled the front office very
well at MailChimp but what if we could
build back Office Solutions and the same
thing happens over there at QuickBooks
there they manage that back office very
well for 38 plus years and they wanted
to help their customers grow their
audiences with the front office and so
it was sort of a match made in heaven
now with and I don't I'll admit I'm a
long time into a customer but I don't
know all the products but maybe being
marketers being less less their their
core Focus right is is there is there a
DNA Challenge and they have to get get
to know marketers better was it a
non-issue or how does that how does
having this a similar but adjacent buyer
work out I think it's still very early
days and they're very open to learning
from us uh and uh teaching teaching them
the ways of uh being weird I think it's
I think it's all a matter of like
teaching them how to embrace the
kookiness and weirdness of the MailChimp
brand that's what's appealing to
marketers and and you know brand
managers out there they love that
weirdness whereas I think if you're
running back office and and you're doing
taxes uh you have to be like I mean they
have personality and character but I
mean different I think I think
creativity is frowned upon in accounting
taxes so they they're having to learn a
little bit there yeah so that's an
evolution embracing the weird yeah it's
a journey cool and then and so one last
thing on this is just at MailChimp scale
right we we passed a billion although
you notice instantly it was right after
the acquisition right yeah you don't
really need to integrate the apps do you
you just need to Thrive integration is
not a huge deal at your scale is it it's
not a top priority they've really made
it a mandate to make sure that we keep
our independence yeah and so far so good
you know keeping it weird thing can I
just say we've got a campaign going on
now with like a dancing rug and weird
roles and
I didn't lead that campaign I'm usually
at the heart of a lot of the weirdness
and to their credit this one was
straight from into it and our new CMO
Michelle and I'm sort of looking at as
half Spectators just saying damn
mailchimp's weird now I see what
everybody else sees I'm like this is
what's the rub thing like it's it's kind
of kooky so they are they are learning
fast is the weirdness bar gone up now
that we see more weird I don't know it's
just it could just be that you know step
back as CEO and now I'm looking at it
with a fresh set of eyes and yeah and I
am I'm walking around the halls and when
you're a CEO you just focus on day to
day thinking about next step and 10
steps from now it's like a game of chess
and then
I've stepped back as CEO and sort of I'm
walking the halls and looking at some of
the fun stuff we've done over the years
and I'm like wow we are weird yeah uh
it's kind of cool so I mean you have a
background as a designer we didn't chat
about but this weird thing is
interesting yeah what how did you come
to weird like I I remember in the old
days of e-signatures my co-founder
wanted us to be the bad boys of these
signatures and I'm like I don't think
that's gonna work like this is a product
yeah 99 of the world doesn't trust and I
know you're a great marketer but this is
too edgy for back in the day right so
how did what did you want to get out of
weird what was your vision here
I mean it was really probably coming
from our small business customers uh my
co-founder Dan and I just believed in
really we didn't try to strategize that
much or come up with all the answers
ourselves we just went out to the
customers and when we talked to them
they were kind of kooky themselves I
mean whatever small business it is that
you're trying to run it's probably been
done before but each founder thinks I'm
gonna do it better I'm going to do it my
way and that's their personal brand and
I don't know that was the first couple
of uh iterations of our brand they were
a little bit weird and funny
um in a kind of a monkey kind of way
that was really the theme and they just
loved it and we just sort of rolled from
there and you know I think one of our
one of our teammates uh uh kind of
encapsulated perfectly I think she came
up with uh we got you because we get you
I think that's the appeal of our brand
for small business owners we get them
look at us we're weird like you or we're
kooky and unique like you and just it's
just work for 21 years it is I want to
go on but one interesting thing you
brought up on the in the on the
acquisition was that for the first time
you added a CS team right in terms of
customers
files or customer success ever and how
what did you learn from that what did
you learn I mean you you made it pretty
far without a CS team with small
businesses what did you learn from that
I mean we we started to I mean we we
just did so well with with smaller
businesses and then we noticed as they
grew and uh you know maybe they would
hire VPS of sales or VPS of marketing
and they would start to use MailChimp
their needs change suddenly it wasn't
the founder who loved our unique and
kooky small business brand it was a new
person uh and they were they they
treated us differently and so I would go
out and visit some of them and you know
I would say what do you think about our
brand uh where where does our brand you
know rest in your brain with other
brands are we next to Nike are we next
to Apple and I remember one one marketer
told me uh uh know your brand lies next
to my microwave oven
and I
you know it kind of broke my heart a
little bit and I said well what do you
mean in your microwave oven he said you
know my founder liked you he loved the
brand but
I've got to grow this business and I
need you to be reliable and if it
doesn't cook my food in a minute I want
someone to call and answer my questions
and just get it running again
I don't want to have to read KB articles
blah blah blah so you know that told me
gosh we've got to like spool up a
customer success team of some sort and
it's been a long journey we've got some
great new executive leaders that are and
into it's got a lot of experience with
this and they're going to take it to
another another level but we talk let's
let's jump into that um because it was
so interesting when we talked before of
where where the break point is for your
brand and product and we talked about
this break point when marketing comes in
when a VP of marketing comes in and
whether you want to retain them always
as a do you always want to retain them
as a customer it's tough It's it's real
it's a com it kind of requires a
different culture you know I mean for 21
years we built one culture very well for
the self-serve SMB market and when you
start to serve a completely different
kind of customer set you have to learn
some new tricks
and we used to get very comfortable
saying well I mean if we're not right
for you then sorry you'll have to find a
new provider and then we we learned that
we were letting a lot of customers down
they really wanted us to grow with them
it is a it is a tough challenge I feel
like you know if they get started with
with your with your small business brand
and they love the little chimpanzee yeah
you know and then and then the founder
hands the keys to a VP of marketing they
really their job is to take it to the
next level they wanted almost a
different brand you know and I've
struggled over the years many years to
try to to build that sort of MailChimp
Pro that second level MailChimp it's a
it's tough it's tough it's tough to
build one great iconic brand to try to
build two uh I don't know I don't have
enough years well it's your own version
of champion change right yeah we talk a
lot about Champion change but really
it's founder to VP the VP they might
like a worse product right but they
probably have some different different
experience right and uh does the founder
want to use
does they do they want to use their chip
to stay with their favorite app when a
VP babies do something else right right
that's right yeah
um and so this going back to this
MailChimp Pro thing so you never did
build it would you could you see in the
data like I could imagine I mean
MailChimp
um you can use it a lot but I could
imagine around five thousand a thousand
dollars a month you might guess that
there could be risk right in the account
did you look at signals or anything like
that we didn't look at those kinds of
signals because we could when you serve
some of these small businesses
especially with e-commerce if they're in
that industry you could have a small
business with two or three employees but
their database is in the millions it was
really wacky to try to look at the data
points what we looked at was um if the
founder set up a sub account
you know with send a username and
password to their VP you're basically
making a copy of the keys for a VP that
was the potential Breaking Point God
that was our red flag if a new VP comes
on they're not going to read the
instruction manual like the founder did
uh so another admin another core use you
that's right that was the signal right
right and they're starting over with a
fresh set of eyes and competitors are
there ready to talk to them and do the
sales pitch and we're like our TFM read
the manual not a great experience but
mostly you
um and wildly successfully you stuck
doggedly to SMB right and where our
hearts were I want to talk that's what I
want to talk about just for a minute is
it
is it just your DNA
yeah your DNA as Founders because those
are when you we talked about I think you
said Uber was like a big account you
lost right and that always that hurts us
all as Founders right but you didn't
change MailChimp you didn't radically
change you didn't bang your maybe you
did I don't think you banged your shoe
on the desk and said we're not going to
lose another massive customer did you I
I felt like
um we it was a technical challenge to me
to just stay true to our roots and our
brand but make MailChimp more performant
for those larger customers so yeah I
kind of flipped on it yeah yeah a little
bit I mean it was I remember it was like
six figures a month was the revenue that
we were getting it's a lot now you don't
just sort of brush that off I mean
that's a Learning lesson for any founder
um but I just I kept challenging my team
to like just just make make it more
performant for those really large uh
databases and they and they really did
it was a great kind of constraint or
technical challenge that made MailChimp
it ended up making better for like the
millions and millions of small
businesses and as for the larger
customers it's sort of a rite of passage
you know if you if you go through high
school and college and you have your
Honda Civic and you graduate and you get
a great paying job do you upgrade to the
Honda Accord
or do you get your Beamer or Tesla or
something something new and we saw that
rite of passage and we also saw that if
we stay true to ourselves and kept
improving after a few more years they
realized that darn Beamer is hard to
maintain and they come right back to us
and they kind of use uh the back door
they use the MailChimp API and that's
where really really massive businesses
still use MailChimp were you able to
track like Word of Mouth in terms of and
related in terms of customer acquisition
and Boomerang so you have did you have a
sense of how much came from Word of
Mouth you know what we were so we didn't
have a team that would track that sort
of thing we were so with freemium we
were getting you know I remember 10 000
signups a day from new customers we were
so busy trying to control that flood of
new users and trying to prevent server
outages I don't know that we ever really
had the time to look at retention yeah
it's interesting on that one we we chat
about what's what's super interesting to
me and maybe to folks in the audience is
that because because of that Top Line
growth in tour end yeah
nrr even I don't know we're not
important to you as long as you hit the
Top Line number right yeah you didn't
you didn't I mean we're all talking
about Lighthouse metrics like s b how
can we get to 100 nrr like Enterprise
130 and and measuring grr and every
metric but this was never a lighthouse
metric for me I don't know and I never
had investors so I never had to do
reports that could be a part of it no
business plan I never I had a monthly
bank statement and I said what's the
starting balance and what's the ending
balance ending should be bigger yeah and
it always was bigger
I still
and but and even at even as you approach
the building as you brought in more Seas
more and we can talk maybe look talk
next about a couple great hires they
didn't push you more on this stuff as
you brought in more DNA you were this
hyper SMB DNA for so long
they probably got tired of trying to
teach me it and then they just gave up
on me they did it quietly somewhere I
got it but I'm not aware of it well
let's let's talk about it let's come
back to the team but let's talk about
bootstrapping for a minute maybe we'll
just use one more slide as a prop we
probably don't need them but it is
different right and before we get there
just because on the internet and with
Founders there's so much discussion of
bootstrapping versus venture-backed but
yeah I don't think it's usually a choice
was it a choice for you for a long time
did you when you were when you were an
agency in the beginning or starting did
you turn away 10 million in seed funding
it wasn't a choice was it I don't nobody
really visited us yeah yeah we were in
Atlanta Georgia and nobody bothered to
fly uh over until one of our competitors
Constant Contact went public in 07. and
then suddenly people in suits started to
show up at our door and I just didn't
understand it you know I I I'm a product
of the.com days I was laid off in April
2000 during the.com bust and there was a
lot of distrust for for a lot of that
sort of like the VC world it was a
movement to do more pragmatic
programming yada yada so we kind of
avoided that for many years and then
they started showing up around 07 and I
I always invited them in let them buy me
lunch and just try to learn as much as I
could but MailChimp kept growing and
growing and we never really needed money
uh where they would offer it and I would
try to figure out what would I spend it
on and we just made plenty uh and we
ultimately never never needed any kind
of investment yeah so we were the other
you know one of the other iconic
bootstrap company I mean there's a few
but is atlassian and we were talking
before Michael Cannon Brooks when he was
at saster said I mean years ago he said
I probably couldn't do it lasting the
same way today because I had four years
to go really slowly when we're
bootstrapped right and I think Alaskan
probably started in 2000 right
um what could you have done as great a
hero story as the bootstrapping side
could you have done it the same way now
is the or is the world too fast
I could do it again no I I think at that
time so they started in 2000 we started
in 2000 that was a different time Cloud
was new that was a new word sass hadn't
really even been invented just yet I
mean everything was Sony it was a time
of um
it was like an unbundling who was that
who's that guy uh Barksdale yeah he
wants somebody asked him for the secret
to Tech running a tech company Jim
Barksdale and he said it's Cycles
bundling and then unbundling and that
was kind of a joke he gave but it's true
it's really true and so like at that
time 2000 everything was unbundling from
desktops and mainframes or whatever we
were using back then PCS and going to
the cloud and there was like you needed
a marketing Cloud you needed sales the
CRM everybody was willing to pay for all
of these different
um unbundled uh Point Solutions and now
I think that we're at a different time
when people want it bundled back
together again and the cycle is just
going to keep continuing I think right
now I don't know that you could do what
we did uh yeah I think there it will
happen when there is a great unbundling
again and what is for MailChimp what I
mean this bundling is interesting right
because we get busy we have a trusted
vendor we want to buy more from them but
in Innovation happens right maybe that's
part of the gym what is what does
bundling mean at MailChimp today what
what is a core what does that mean
versus four or five years ago well for
for us right now it's sort of this
hypothesis with uh into it that that we
had that oh that's a super bundle yes
small businesses really want one
platform where they can manage their
business with QuickBooks and then grow
their business with MailChimp got it
well that'll be a big experiment right
um it's the biggest related to that we
chatted before
um about product expansion I learned
some interesting stuff from you but what
works and what doesn't right and what
worked for you I think we talked about
landing pages being a surprise right and
e-commerce being harder than you
expected to expand in right yeah
e-commerce e-commerce was a bit it's
it's a challenge to break into that
World um but and and we we built all
kinds of things for our small businesses
um landing pages was one that we built
I kind of thought they were boring uh
not really a big deal and it was
probably one of our most popular
features over the last in recent years I
mean it just took off and sold like
hotcakes and I still to this day can't
explain it I'm just thankful that we had
this culture at MailChimp to constantly
not we didn't even use the word innovate
as far as I can remember I always just
said Tinker I said just keep tinkering
with code and just keep trying little
make small bets I didn't want Moon shots
they were too expensive I just said make
little small bets and fail fast and then
just kind of like recalibrate and
landing pages is one of those little
tinkering experiments someone did
who knew I mean it just took off well
that's that's
a little bit of nonsense it's
interesting it's a little non-standard
of like as you get bigger the bets have
to be bigger right they have to be
material but maybe that wasn't how you
thought about it you still wanted to try
and maybe it's the bootstrapping
mentality but landing pages turned out
to be much larger than you thought it
was it was it wasn't planned on a
whiteboard that's right I don't know if
they need to be able to I guess they do
need to be bigger like if you're a
public company and you have to care
about Wall Street I mean but I think you
need a lot of those uh those little
things baking in the oven because you
never know which one is really going to
take off it's tremendously hard to kind
of manage that and then also run your
business at the same time that's tough
yeah I just we as we're learning back in
the day we had Jeff Lawson from twilio
come on just after IPO and he's like I'm
gonna do 100 experiments I'm gonna do
this type of SMS and Eminem's and we're
gonna see what sticks and the next time
he's like well I'm gonna buy seven years
in a segment because I got to get scale
yes like I get like the experiments have
to be really big
um and then we had Peter gastner from
viva who said your experiment has to be
bigger because you're gonna if
mailchimp's coming up at a billion and I
want to do two billion my experiment
better not do 50 million yeah you're
right you get to a size and maybe you
just don't have the expertise in-house
you have to acquire the talent and bring
it in yeah I get it yeah but you said
but the landing pages you said one of
the reasons it took off and I think it's
learning we've all figured it out is
it's it's the same buyer right versus
e-commerce maybe is more complicated to
sell to yeah I think with landing pages
what we what what we overlooked and we
went back and talked to small businesses
what they had their e-commerce solution
and they loved it and they had MailChimp
which they used for the email marketing
but you know the marketer uh is
different they have different needs they
need to move fast when they want to
modify their Commerce with their
shopping cart they've got to ask for
technical help from an engineer and
those two worlds tend not to like to
talk to each other very much and so
marketers really wanted their own little
solution that they could use without
talking to any engineers and they love
the ability to spawn up really quick
landing pages inside of MailChimp that
connected to their carts through the API
and sell their stuff so yeah that was
that was the Insight that we had and the
the
uh it was obvious to me when you said it
but the core ICP is the same today at a
billion which is
someone who wants to get marketing going
without any engineering resources right
that's the designer background was at
the ICP you intentionally or someone
intentionally went after and it it
scaled right uh what's ICP well the
target the target
buyer user of your product
yeah yeah I mean I mean with for the
very small business the run your own
company to a billion you don't need to
know any of these things mrr ICP they
don't they don't matter just the Top
Line Target buyer then yeah why do we
say ICP Jason come on come on
[Applause]
uh yeah it's the marketer it's really
the small business founder who who you
know when you start a small business I
don't know I don't think that you're
thinking about your CMS or your CRM or
anything I think you're thinking
marketing first how do I sell my stuff
that's the first thing you're thinking
of so we're thinking about that we're
thinking about that founder
um and going back to one that we we
skipped on a little bit but we but it's
always interesting now that you can
reflect a little bit right yeah
um
that I laughed too loud I'm sorry uh
it's sort of like erasing old CEO habits
is is what I'm trying to do yeah but yes
reflect let's call it reflect um two or
three top game-changing hires two or
three top game changers on the journey
um my gosh uh in the early years uh we
had an engineer a lead engineer named
Chad we called him the Chad because he
never slept uh he I mean really he never
slept uh and he was constantly building
stuff he was amazing he was the one we
we hired him to turn MailChimp into two
products uh to take our old code divide
it into two make one one of them the
list building for your blog and the
other one if you wanted to send emails
that's when we charge you money that's
when I'd get you
um and he worked on that he was a
machine uh and after a year he said it's
impossible your code sucks so bad
um let me just keep it one product and
just make it free up to a point uh and
really that's where freemium came from
yeah so he was amazing Aaron Walter our
first designer he was the first person I
hired to take over my job as designer he
really cared about the brand and the ux
and kind of melding that into one great
customer experience uh man that was
transformational and I've had two CEOs
prior to Intuit uh Neil Bannon was our
first CEO and he was sort of at that
time our adult supervision like Eric
Schmidt uh managing Larry Page and
Sergey at Google and he was their adult
supervision and Neil was my adult
supervision and he was an amazing CEO
that I think I don't know if you're a
Founder like me you can be pretty
abrasive and I don't know you're
obsessed over the product and kind of in
that weird Steve Jobs Ian kind of a way
and Neil was a really good buffer from
me
so a lot of people just went to kneel
instead of me and I could really push
Neil to to make the product better and
then pharah our next coo was also just
that buffer Neil got us from like zero
to 300 million pharah got us crazy 300
to 700 million uh and when did you we
all want this magical Co that can hide
our warts and issues right
um when did you the first one when did
you decide you needed him how'd you find
him
uh well I mean with Neil he was really
more adult supervision he was a mentor
to be honest so your VCS didn't force
him in it wasn't anything no there was
no forcing uh I think I just think that
he was just a good balance I mean he
knew we knew our boundaries our roles
and responsibilities I think they say
now but we knew he was really good at
the operational stuff and he was very
senior to me
um you know he was in his late 40s I was
in my late 20s at the time and I needed
that experience in-house and a lot of
people really liked talking to him he
was like our father
um so I mean he was just a really it was
a sort of a yin yang thing did you go
recruit him did you hunt him or how did
you do it
he he basically uh joined our.com right
before we were all laid off together
there yeah yeah we sort of kept the
relationship uh I gave him a lot of
branding advice he gave me a lot of
marketing advice uh and then eventually
our our paths crossed again and he
joined okay I wanna we'll take some
questions but I want to hit two other
things one a fun one on acronyms do you
think there's such thing as plg
what
[Laughter]
I'm looking for freemium one because
it's successful but two because you
decided later right two to three years
into the journey to that was the big
accelerant right was going freemium
right nine years into the journey nine
years into the journey okay we should
chat about that we chat about but half
this audience wants to know about plg
they want product-led growth they want a
magical product that when I get my
little chip in my email or I open it up
or something happens on the page all
this is this is half the marketers in
this room want to inject plg into the
product but it doesn't sound like even
today that's a that's a top acronym at
MailChimp a product lead growth yeah I
mean that was everything to us was I
mean Innovation new features was
marketing for us yeah I could not so
nothing new there's nothing new in your
book right yeah I don't know that just
that's like common sense to me
when you call a plg we just called it
building stuff well we didn't used to
call it SAS or Cloud but we kind of have
to go in with these acronyms don't we
silly stuff yeah it's uh it's become a
Holy Grail all right one last thing I
want to hit and we'll do some questions
but
a billionaire are right a couple things
first of all did you think 22 years ago
MailChimp would get there did you think
you'd get to a billion I Had No Limits
I'd hoped that we would get massive yeah
I I was I'd studied the art of it though
and I'd learned from a lot of CEOs and
Founders out there that you could
probably get up to 800 million in that
last 200 million is the hardest you'll
ever get and that was absolutely true
yeah yeah what was so hard just pandemic
didn't help what's that the pandemic did
not help no it didn't help no it didn't
no it helped with half of our customer
base that we're e-commerce yeah yes but
we had a lot of uh bricks and mortars oh
yeah we really suffered that one side or
the other yeah yeah yeah and so it's it
seemed it didn't so it didn't seem crazy
to you
um
is there a ceiling I mean I know you
can't speak so much on behalf of Intuit
but can can MailChimp do 10 billion can
all these products do 10 billion is it
going to do more like is there any
ceiling for this stuff I don't see why
there should be I mean I think if we
just keep that plg mental technology
mentality and just keep innovating and
listening to small businesses and
understanding what they need and
pivoting fast and building for them I
don't see why there's there needs to be
any limit I used to think a trillion
dollar market cap there's no way and
then now it's happening left and right
it seems like it is left and right right
I mean that that was a theoretical limit
uh before a company would implode and
it's not I don't see them imploding and
even into it I should know but I tell me
how much revenue into it soon but I
think they grew over 30 last quarter
right I mean MailChimp helped right it's
crazy isn't it crazy crazy right at that
scale that a company of into its yes I
mean I don't track numbers so I don't
even I know but it's a lot of growth
right so last one on this and then we
can take some questions so please ask
something but yeah the enduring side of
SAS
um in 2042 is MailChimp still around is
it a brand and a product and is it
similar to today I absolutely see it's
still around yeah around yeah yeah I see
it really baked into QuickBooks and I
think that we're really just getting
started with this it's still very early
days and I just see customers managing
their lists uh managing their customer
base in QuickBooks paying their bills
and then saying
you know when you look at that invoice
that's been paid you say damn that's a
really great customer how do I find more
customers like them yeah that's a button
they can push and then MailChimp will
take care of that let me find similar
customers just like that we have the
data to do it I see that really being
sort of the next step of where we go
with that you're thinking like 21 40 to
24 for when the last internet is used
it's an email I mean it's like it could
be the last I think it's like the first
thing on the internet I think it may be
the last thing we do on the internet too
isn't any email right I mean it's an
amazing protocol they've been telling me
for 21 years emails did and it's
stronger than ever right it's going just
fine all right yeah
all right we may need some help but any
guys have some come on up and ask a
question
hey Rob hey Ben congrats I never see you
in Atlanta we have to come all the way
out here to see each other Austin Texas
for get everyone together right so Ben
for Founders who might think they don't
ever want to be acquired what advice
would you give them and maybe what was
persuasive to you along the way
wow Rob that one's that's a long one if
you don't ever want to get acquired
never open the door to anyone because
because here's it really honestly if you
open the door and let one in you have to
bring your executive team in with you
eventually and once everyone gets in on
that it's very tough to back down after
that when you say well that one didn't
work let's forget about it all together
and go back to running our business
people it is tough I can't put that
toothpaste back in the tube so if that's
what you really want never do that but
then I would warn you like you should
never say never uh and uh you know
they're they're gonna come these weird
times these Cycles in the market where
my gosh it's gonna seem like every one
of your competitors is getting way more
funding uh they can print equity in lieu
of actual cash like I've never
understood that and then it starts to
get more attractive for people to join
those companies and you start to wonder
should I do that should I do that and uh
you know my advice would be like maybe
wait maybe wait a little bit you'll see
the cycle turn again but I think all of
those factors started to make us think
uh about doing it and it helped it
convinced us to open the door and then
once that's open it's hard to put the
genie back in the bottle
so thanks for that question
hey Ben a big fan Atlanta founder as
well cool
um so I can imagine you can relate in
the fact that one of the biggest
problems in Atlanta right now it's not
access to Talent at Georgia Tech Emory
Etc it's not a lack of Founders being
there because you walk around got ATV at
DC a lot of hubs I would say
its access to Capital
um so I'm curious Founders like yourself
Tope Carl Porter exiting recently do you
think that having that into the Atlanta
ecosystem is actually going to change
that Capital flow into the ecosystem to
get more Founders funded
um what you're a Founder in Atlanta
what's your company um Arkham we do turn
mitigation for credit card processors or
Merchant acquires they had to give them
some air time yeah
uh I you know it's a good question I
don't know much about creating access to
Capital I never had it never cared for
it very much I I remember reading
something about how ecosystems startup
ecosystems get started and a lot of it
comes from Acquisitions and talented
people finally leaving your company to
start their own and I remember reading
that many years ago and thinking wow
there's so many talented people at
MailChimp and they won't leave because
it was such a great place
I I we we made it such a great company
you know and and I think after an
acquisition happens people they get
transaction bonuses they want to go out
and start their own thing like I did and
I think that's the best sort of
stimulant so uh I I hope that MailChimp
helps Atlanta in that way
thank you but I think if you want access
to Capital if you want investors to come
to the city I think they finally learned
that Atlanta is a great City to come to
and I think it's it's really on Founders
to build great businesses worth worth
the flight over and we've got a lot of
those in Atlanta now it's much flatterer
too than it used to be right I mean I
invested in sales off pre-revenue so
I've known Kyle and I introduced him all
those VCS because no one would go to
Atlanta that's right I introduced them
to emergency I've invested too an
emergence and insight but today everyone
gets it so I just think coven makes it
easier yes because everyone's it's not
that it's it's still easier to be here
don't get me wrong you can walk around
and meet 500 VCS but every investor is
hunting if not globally across the U.S
so it's not I think it's the talent it's
exactly balance the big thing the
capital has become a little bit a lot
more flat than it was before but but you
know if you're going to start a b tube B
yeah Enterprise company California is
absolutely the best place to be B to C
like a consumer brand you can't beat
Atlanta we've got Coca-Cola Home Depot
UPS Delta Airlines Chick-fil-A like top
top brands are all right there in
Atlanta thanks for the question thank
you thank you
hi Ben hi my name is Jerry and like you
we are also building a bootstrapped
company and my question to you is as you
thought about building your company
bootstrapped how did you think about
profitability and thinking about
investing in the right areas did you
always try to maintain X percentage of
profitability how did you think about
that
um I mostly yeah I talked about looking
at the bank statements for one uh but
that was maybe I guess the trailing
indicator or something what I really
cared about most was uh here's some
acronyms to LTV LTV and Cat I cared
about that you did care about LTV that
was the only thing I cared about and it
was it was really because my first CEO
he made me listen to some of the
investor calls of our competitors and
they talked about their customer
acquisition costs and their lifetime
value and I knew our lifetime value from
a typical small business customers I
knew how much that was and the trick was
don't spend more than that yeah
I like it
oh yeah and and and like the lifetime
value I knew how long it took me to get
that you know and you try to shorten
that get that as it is short of time as
you can uh recoup that cost ASAP that
was really all I cared about I what I
would watch for that like once a quarter
thank you yep
good luck on the bootstrapping hey man
um so my founder also bootstrapped from
Argentina we're about 100 people 10
million in AR we're doing well but uh
yeah but we are we're having a problem
now with our Tech and something about
what you said yesterday so the tech is
built in a way that's not like we didn't
go and hire the best developers at the
very first start so it's a lot of old
code that we're needing to redo and so
we're plateauing a bit because we can't
scale the attack right now how did you
manage that as CEO not being from a
technical background because you're not
a CEO that comes from the tech side and
that's my my challenge as well how did
you manage that and did you ever have
that
I actually think if you don't come from
the tech side it's an advantage because
you stay the hell out of the engineer's
way
uh I mean if you know if you look over
their shoulder and say you coded that
wrong I mean it's just not going to help
anything so I had I tried to hire the
craziest and the best and I just gave
them cool toys really powerful computers
and as big monitors as I could find at
the time and just left them alone
um and I bought them snacks
and I mean in the early days I mean I'm
I'm yes I'm trying to be funny but in
the early days when you have Pirates I
mean that's all that matters is they
want to build great stuff so we talked
about the purpose the mission and they
were just passionate about it and they
and and I just tried to stay out of
their way and and I think V3 is pivotal
for almost like every product like
there's something about V3 after V3
you're real that's product Market fit
maybe and V3 maybe you're at V3 yeah rv3
was like that it took a year to get it
to get it done where before actually and
that's yeah but yes it's around that
area around that time but yeah I mean
it's it's gonna hurt and I don't know
what to say if it's this is a massive
one and then hopefully if you do this
one right then then it's going to be
like nothing but iterations until maybe
like V8 that was the next one we've all
been through it right yeah but if you
get the best talent that's the only way
to solve it whether it's a VPN you're
better people we've all everyone in this
room has been through some version of it
yeah um you got to do it only once right
or it destroys you right that's right it
doesn't always mean best pedigree at the
best university sometimes it's just some
Scrappy really weird like we hired one
that would look like an Ax Murderer and
I was afraid to be at the office late
with him but he was amazing he built our
entire API I mean he was just awesome so
it's like like cast a broad net he
brought in the net yeah all right thanks
congrats to getting your 10 million yes
man thanks I'm bootstrapping again also
awesome and I hadn't thought about this
until I heard you talk about future
MailChimp but is there a way we could
use future MailChimp to draw visibility
to the whole environment social
governance and impact on the climate of
the apps that we all use
gosh that's a deep question I've been in
it for 40 years I've had time to think
about it I
I don't know you know I I have no idea I
don't I don't
I'm a designer and my product has a
chimpanzee as its mascot I don't but
like I'm probably the worst person yeah
it's good so I'd love to brainstorm with
you about it yeah that'd be great thank
you all right we'll take one more
question then give Ben a break but thank
you hey uh so it was mentioned earlier
that Atlanta is becoming more and more
of a tech City and my question is during
the early days uh being in Atlanta how
are you able to attract top talent and
retain that top talent without massive
funding as Europe was driving over the
years
um not having the massive funding was in
retrospect an asset because it attracted
people who truly cared about the cause
not to get that money and the equity for
it
um so it it's not that much of a
weakness to be honest with you but when
you're in the moment it's hell I know
but in retrospect I'm so thankful we
didn't have that massive funding
um we tried everything we tried to post
jobs everywhere what ultimately helped
was we just said forget it just stop
trying to hire people and just iterate
and launch cool stuff and so we started
to launch some stuff that was kind of
innovative at the time and that started
to attract Engineers they would notice
that stuff and that's how we got our
call from the Chad and he came over uh
he was amazed by it and then you know he
was I think kind of jaded at his current
startup they weren't really listening to
him uh and he felt like he wanted to go
to a place where people would listen to
him and so that's why he joined us and
uh I think that the one that looked like
a Ax Murderer uh he had a heart of gold
he was so kind but he he said that he
joined us because all of my screenshots
my username the fake username was Roger
Waters I was a Pink Floyd fan uh and he
was a Pink Floyd fan and he said that's
why he joined us so I mean
in the early days when it's Pirates man
you just you have no idea you have no
idea
I mean just keep trying and I would say
really launch cool stuff just try to do
cool stuff and publish it as much as you
can and that'll attract the talent so
you got me I sometimes call Missionaries
they're folks that get yes yeah they
could make more money you got to pay him
enough to to survive but there are if
you're if you're most folks here are
charismatic founder they wouldn't be
here you can find a couple missionaries
including Engineers that will not not
all of them like I mean Google pays
better into it pays better but there are
the stories are missionaries so if
you're struggling see that find your own
Charisma and there's always a missionary
story right I paid them more than I paid
myself in those early years too by the
way you have to pay them you don't have
that massive funding they want the cash
sometimes I just didn't pay myself and
then it sounds like a little wrap from
that but it's an interesting story and
then you got the missionaries but then
you created a center of excellence so
you got the missionaries got you a few
good Engineers yeah and then people
wanted to work on cool problems right so
you were able to get the the expert or
gravity and that's how you get this
flywheel going in engineering hiring
like find the missionaries that are
great and then people will be attracted
to working with them and then it's never
easy but
um any great founder someone's some
great engineer is going to want some
some romantic engineer is going to want
to work for you someone that believes in
your mission right
foreign
[Music]